MAP524
Mobile App Development - Android


Assignment #1 - Due: Feb 17, 2014

Design and code an Android database application 
  
  that allows a user to monitor his/her automobile fuel consumption and associated costs. 
  Here is a sample of the database records you should use. 
  The record layout is show below.

  date of gas purchase
  cost of gas
  liters purchased
  odometer reading
  fill up?
  name of gas station
  cost of car wash


PART A: Query Database

  1. Create an SQLite database from the given data. 
    You can do this from the command line on Matrix.
  
  2. Name the database "subaru.db".

  3. Copy the database to your "assets" directory.
    
  4. Write the necessary Java code to copy the database to your phone (or AVD). 
    This will be part of your application. ie. Every time your app starts it will need to check if the database is installed. 
    If it isn't it will have to be copied from the assets folder.
  
  5. Create a UI that will allow you to query the database. 
    For example
      Enter a gas station name or all. 
      Enter a date range or all.
      Show the total cost of gas purchased at that station (or all) for the given date range (or all).
      Show the total cost of car washes for that station (or all) for a given date range (or all).
      Show the average cost of gas per liter for that station (or all) for a given date range (or all).
      Show the average cost of a car wash for that station (or all) for a given date range (or all).
  6. Use fonts, colors and images to improve the aesthetics of your app.

PART B: Update Database

  1. Create a UI that allows a user to enter new records into the database or to delete existing records. 
  2. Create a UI that allows a user to scroll through all database records. 

NOTES:

  Please read "Assignment Expectations" when preparing your assignment for submission.
  This assignment is worth 12% of your final grade.
  Should you choose not to do this assignment, you must submit a 1 page proposal outlining what you intend to do for your own project. 
  This proposal must be submitted on or before Friday, January 31, 2014.